## Fractional Vegetation Cover Monthly Dataset of the Kherlen River Basin in 2022
### Abstract
<p> Accurately obtaining the Fractional Vegetable Cover (FVC) at the river basin scale is of vital significance for an in-depth study of the river basin ecosystem, wetland health, and ecological conservation strategies. FVC is a crucial indicator of the extent of vegetation cover on the ground, which reflects the growth of surface vegetation and is essential for assessing the health of ecosystems, predicting ecological responses and formulating conservation policies. Traditional inversion methods for FVC, such as the pixel-dichotomization method, linear regression method, and random forest regression model, always fail to effectively explore the subtle differences between spectral features and ignore the complex nonlinear relationships between high-dimensional features. Due to such lack of traditional methods, in this research, we will use deep learning methods to build a Bidirectional-Long short-term memory (BiLSTM) model aiming to accurately estimate the FVC indicator in the Kluren River Basin, an important ecological area located at the border between China and Mongolia, as a study area. In this study, we first constructed a feature dataset based on Sentinel-2 imagery, combining spectral indices and elevation data, which can reflect various information about the vegetation, including chlorophyll content, moisture status, and topography and geomorphology. Then, the feature dataset is divided into a training set and a test set and fed into the BiLSTM model for training and predicting the FVC indicator in the Kluren River basin. Meanwhile, to verify the superiority of the BiLSTM model, we also conducted a comparison experiment between BiLSTM model and Random Forest Regression (RFR), Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP), and Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) models. The results showed that the BiLSTM model is the most outstanding, compared with the others, in this inverting FVC indicator task, and its R-Square and RMSE metrics were 0.716 and 0.103, respectively. This study not only demonstrates the great potential of the BiLSTM model in surface parameter inversion and related studies, but also generates fine-resolution datasets, which could provide strong support for other geoscientific studies. </p>
